{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red96\green96\blue96;\red191\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue191;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 FileListView		
\fs24 A GUI Listbox that navigates a filesystem.
\f1\b0\fs18 \

\f0\b\fs24 \
*new( parent, bounds, basePath, action, dblClickAction, types, filtered=false )
\f1\b0\fs18 \
	
\f0\b\fs24 parent
\f2\b0 	- the view's parent.
\f1\fs18 \
	
\f0\b\fs24 bounds
\f2\b0 	- view bounds
\f1\fs18 \
	
\f0\b\fs24 basePath 
\f2\b0 - initial path.\
		this can be set to a relative path.  eg. "sounds/" - refering to SC's sounds dir.\
		if basePath is relative, path nagivation will be 'jailed' to subdirectories bellow basePath.\

\f0\b 	action
\f2\b0 	- a Function. this is evaluated each time that a new item is selected via mouse \
		(random access) or by pressing arrow up or down on the keyboard.
\f0\b \
	dblClickAction
\f2\b0 	 - a Function. This is evaluated each time the enter key is pressed or a mouse double click \
		occures on an item.
\f0\b \
	types
\f2\b0 	- an Array of file extensions. Files that FileListView is 'allowed' to show.\
		if Types is ommited, types wil be initialized with this array:\

\f1\fs18 \
			types = [\cf2 "aiff"\cf0 , \cf2 "aif"\cf0 , \cf2 "wav"\cf0 ];\

\f2\fs24 		
\f0\b \
	filtered
\f2\b0 	- enable/disable file type filtering. filtered defaults to false. show all files.
\f1\fs18 \

\f2\fs24 \

\f0\b Instance methods:
\f2\b0 \
\

\f0\b listbox
\f2\b0  		- a GUI.listView object. use this to modify behaviours on the GUI object.\
\

\f0\b basePath 
\f2\b0 - get base path.\
		relative path names, eg. "sounds/", constrain path nagivation to subdirectories \
		bellow basePath.\
		
\f1\fs18 \

\f0\b\fs24 path
\f2\b0 		- get current path
\f0\b \
\
filename
\f2\b0 	- current selection filename
\f1\fs18 \

\f0\b\fs24 \
fullName
\f2\b0 	- get the currently selected item full name\
\

\f0\b refresh
\f2\b0 	- re-read the listbox items\
\

\f0\b action
\f2\b0 	- get or set a Function. this is evaluated each time that a new item is selected via mouse (random \
		access) or by pressing arrow up or down on the keyboard.
\f0\b \
\
dblClickAction
\f2\b0 	\
		- get or set a Function. This is evaluated each time the enter key is pressed or a mouse double \
		click 	occures on an item.
\f0\b \
\
types
\f2\b0 	- an Array of file extensions. Files that FileListView is 'allowed' to show.\
		if Types is ommited, types wil be initialized with this array:\

\f1\fs18 \
		types = [\cf2 "aiff"\cf0 , \cf2 "aif"\cf0 , \cf2 "wav"\cf0 ];\

\f2\fs24 	
\f0\b \
filtered
\f2\b0 	- enable/disable file type filtering\

\f1\fs18 \

\f0\b\fs24 dirColor
\f2\b0 	- get or set Directories color\

\f1\fs18 \

\f0\b\fs24 typeColors
\f2\b0 \
		- get or set an Array of item colors. an entry per file type - eg, types.size\
\

\f0\b path_
\f2\b0 	- set a new path\
\

\f0\b value
\f2\b0 	- get or set the listbox value - an int.\
\

\f0\b items
\f2\b0 	- get the items list\
\

\f0\b bounds
\f2\b0 	- set or get the listbox view bounds\

\f1\fs18 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 //example\cf0 \
(\
	w = \cf4 SCWindow\cf0 (\cf2 "FileListView test"\cf0 , \cf4 Rect\cf0 (100, 300, 400, 245)).front;\
	w.view.decorator = \cf4 FlowLayout\cf0 (w.view.bounds.insetBy(5,2));\
\
	b = \cf4 FileListView\cf0 (\
			w,\
			\cf4 Rect\cf0 (0,0,230,180), \
		//	\cf4 String\cf0 .scDir ++ \cf2 "/sounds/"\cf0 ,	\cf3 // an absolute path\cf0 \
			\cf2 "sounds/"\cf0 , \cf3 // constrain navigation to subdirectories of sounds/\cf0 \
			action:			\{ \cf4 arg\cf0  v; postf(\cf2 "action: %\\n"\cf0 , v.filename ) \}, \
			dblClickAction:	\{ \cf4 arg\cf0  v; postf(\cf2 "dblClickAction: %\\n"\cf0 , v.fullname ) \}\
		);\
	b.listbox.resize_(5);\
//	b.listbox.background_(\cf4 Color\cf0 .new(200,200,200, alpha: 0.2));\
)\
\
b.filtered\
b.types\
\
b.filtered_(\cf4 true\cf0 )\
\
(\
	b.dirColor_( \cf4 Color\cf0 .rand );\
	b.refresh;\
)\
\
b.typeColors\
\
b.types_( [\cf2 "aiff"\cf0 ] )\
\
b.types_( [\cf2 "wav"\cf0 ] )\
\
b.types_( [\cf2 "aiff"\cf0 , \cf2 "aif"\cf0 , \cf2 "wav"\cf0 ] );\
\
b.filtered_(\cf4 false\cf0 )\
\
b.action.asCompileString\
b.dblClickAction.asCompileString\
\
b.value_(1)\
b.items\
\
b.basePath\
b.path_( \cf2 "asd/"\cf0  ) \cf3 // error - unless you have an 'asd' directory inside your SC folder.\cf0 \
b.path_( \cf2 "recordings/"\cf0  )\
b.path_( \cf2 "sounds/"\cf0  )\
\
b.filename\
\
b.fullname\
\
\
}